---
title: 'Linear Algebra Essentials to Differential Geometry'
date: 2018-08-23
permalink: /posts/2018/linear-algebra-1/
tags:
  - math
  - linear algebra
---

This is my notes w.r.t. differential geometry study.  From the book "*first steps in differential geometry*", and this is only the linear algebra part.  Noted, this book isn't very well written, not written with good math intuitions (hard to understand).  But, it's very succinct to the essentials, so I'm try to understand it by my own. As follows, I only note the chapters that require **creative** understanding.

## Dual of a vector space, forms and pullbacks

This section corresponds to chapter 2.9.

### Dual of a vector space, aka. one-form, covector

Given V as a vector, its corresponding dual form is a map from V to R:
$V^* = V\to R$. Further, $$V^*$$ could be regarded as a dot-product.
Then, given $v\in R^2, T\in R^{2*}, T\circ v \in R$.  We
could think of T as another $R^2$ vector, and the computation is dot-product. [This is supported by Theorem 2.9.22 later]

### Pullbacks

Projection ($\Phi$) is a map from v to w, could be regarded as a matrix $\in R^{n\times m}$, while $v\in R^n, w\in R^m$. Then pullback($\Phi^\star$) is a map from $w^\star$ back to $v^\star$, while they're all covectors.  A pullback could be regarded as the transpose of the corresponding projection matrix, namely, $\Phi^\star = \Phi^T$.

Pullback is defined this way:
$$(\Phi^*(T))(v) = T(\Phi(v))$$, where $$T\in W^*$$ and $$v\in V$$.
In the math understanding:

* left: pullback $$T\in w^*$$ to $$\Phi(T)\in v^*$$, then apply "dot-product" to v.
* right: project $v\in V$ to $w\in W$, then apply $$w^*\in W^*$$ to it, and get a real value.

While in the matrix understanding:

* Left = $$(\Phi^*\circ T)^T \circ v$$

* right=$T^T\circ ( \Phi\circ v )$

We could easily observe that they are equal. Noted: every time we apply dot-product, we need to transpose the former vector.

Then, we can understand $$(\Phi_2\circ \Phi_1)^* = \Phi_1^*\circ \Phi_2^*$$, by transpose of matrix multiplication.

### Two-forms (aka. Bilinear Form) and Its Pullbacks

Since one-form ($$V\to R$$) could be regarded as dot-product (with a vector), two-form ($b \in V\times V \to R$) could be regards as a bilinear operation (with a matrix): $b(v,w) = w^TBv$, and $B$ is its corresponding matrix.

Pullbacks of bilinear forms is of type $(W\times W \to R) \to (V\times V \to R)$ , and defined by:   
$$  (T^*B)(v_1,v_2) = B(T(v_1), T(v_2)) $$ where $T\in V\to W$ and $B\in W\times W \to R​$.



